# Documentation #

This meta-article has been created to discuss some of the simple design
decisions behind the current documentation method.

## Wiki Documentation ##

The documentation has been produced in
[Markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/basics). Markdown is a
very resilient and popular plain-text format. It is especially popular among
the open source community, being used prominently by both GitHub and
StackOverflow.

This presents something of a problem, as the OARK Wiki itself uses DokuWiki
syntax. Fortunately, there exist tools to convert between many different
document formats. [Pandoc](http://pandoc.org/README.html) is a simple yet
powerful tool to perform this conversion.

Any UML diagrams present have been created using
[PlantUML](http://plantuml.com/) syntax. This allows us to write the UML in
text and automatically generate the image file from the text specification.
Modifying a UML diagram becomes incredibly easy using this method. To generate
the images one need only download the distributable from the PlantUML website
and run 

    java -jar plantuml.jar [filename1] [filename2] [...]

Where possible, the text for a UML diagram will be stored as close to where
the UML diagram is intended to be displayed as possible. Hopefully this will
be in the exact same file, depending on whether the markup can be correctly
commented out or not.


## Source Documentation ##

The source code documentation has been automatically generated by appropriate
tools.
